README.md, before:

# Scylla Vector Store

This is an indexing service for ScyllaDB for vector searching functionality.

## Configuration

All configuration of the Vector Store is done using environment variables. The
service supports also `.env` files.

| Variable                                   | Description                                                                                                              | Default           |
| ------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ----------------- |
| `VECTOR_STORE_URI`                         | The bind address and a listening port of HTTP(S) API                                                                     | `127.0.0.1:6080`  |
| `VECTOR_STORE_TLS_CERT_PATH`               | Path to the TLS certificate file to enable HTTPS. Both certificate and key paths must be set.                            |                   |
| `VECTOR_STORE_TLS_KEY_PATH`                | Path to the TLS private key file to enable HTTPS. Both certificate and key paths must be set.                            |                   |
| `VECTOR_STORE_SCYLLADB_URI`                | The connection endpoint to ScyllaDB server.                                                                              | `127.0.0.1:9042`  |
| `VECTOR_STORE_SCYLLADB_USERNAME`           | The username for authenticating with ScyllaDB. If not set, authentication is disabled.                                   |                   |
| `VECTOR_STORE_SCYLLADB_PASSWORD_FILE`      | The path to a file containing the password for ScyllaDB authentication.                                                  |                   |
| `VECTOR_STORE_OPENSEARCH_URI`              | A connection endpoint to an OpenSearch instance HTTP API. If not set, the service uses the USearch library for indexing. |                   |
| `VECTOR_STORE_THREADS`                     | How many threads should be used for Vector Store indexing.                                                               | (number of cores) |
| `VECTOR_STORE_MEMORY_LIMIT`                | How much available memory (in bytes) could be in use to allow allocation more memory for the index.                      | 95% of avail mem  |
| `VECTOR_STORE_MEMORY_USAGE_CHECK_INTERVAL` | How frequently available memory should be checked. The value is in human readable value (ie. `100ms`)                    | `1s`              |
| `VECTOR_STORE_USEARCH_SIMULATOR`           | Enable simulator for USearch. Provides human readable delays for simulated operations (`search:add-remove:reserve`).     |                   | 

## Development builds

You need to install [Rust
environment](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install). To install all
components run `rustup install` in the main directory of the repository.

Development workflow is similar to the typical `Cargo` development in Rust.

```
$ cargo b [-r]
$ cargo r [-r]
```

To install all cargo tools used in the CI:

```
$ scripts/install-cargo-tools
```

## Subdirectories

- [scripts](./scripts/README.md) - helper scripts for development, release,
  deployment, and testing

```
$ docker build -t vector-store .
```

Commit message:

vector-store: implement driver and cdc keeplive interval envs
For integration testing we need to change keepalives and other intervals of
scylla rust driver and cdc rust driver. These parameters could be also helpful
for troubleshooting connectivity issues in staging or production.

This commit introduces these env variables
- VECTOR_STORE_CQL_KEEPALIVE_INTERVAL
- VECTOR_STORE_CQL_KEEPALIVE_TIMEOUT
- VECTOR_STORE_CQL_TCP_KEEPALIVE_INTERVAL
- VECTOR_STORE_CDC_SAFETY_INTERVAL
- VECTOR_STORE_CDC_SLEEP_INTERVAL

These variables will be read every time new session or cdc reader is created.
They won't trigger cql reconnect.

README.md, after:

# Scylla Vector Store

This is an indexing service for ScyllaDB for vector searching functionality.

## Configuration

All configuration of the Vector Store is done using environment variables. The
service supports also `.env` files.

| Variable                                   | Description                                                                                                              | Default           |
| ------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ----------------- |
| `VECTOR_STORE_URI`                         | The bind address and a listening port of HTTP(S) API                                                                     | `127.0.0.1:6080`  |
| `VECTOR_STORE_TLS_CERT_PATH`               | Path to the TLS certificate file to enable HTTPS. Both certificate and key paths must be set.                            |                   |
| `VECTOR_STORE_TLS_KEY_PATH`                | Path to the TLS private key file to enable HTTPS. Both certificate and key paths must be set.                            |                   |
| `VECTOR_STORE_SCYLLADB_URI`                | The connection endpoint to ScyllaDB server.                                                                              | `127.0.0.1:9042`  |
| `VECTOR_STORE_SCYLLADB_USERNAME`           | The username for authenticating with ScyllaDB. If not set, authentication is disabled.                                   |                   |
| `VECTOR_STORE_SCYLLADB_PASSWORD_FILE`      | The path to a file containing the password for ScyllaDB authentication.                                                  |                   |
| `VECTOR_STORE_OPENSEARCH_URI`              | A connection endpoint to an OpenSearch instance HTTP API. If not set, the service uses the USearch library for indexing. |                   |
| `VECTOR_STORE_THREADS`                     | How many threads should be used for Vector Store indexing.                                                               | (number of cores) |
| `VECTOR_STORE_MEMORY_LIMIT`                | How much available memory (in bytes) could be in use to allow allocation more memory for the index.                      | 95% of avail mem  |
| `VECTOR_STORE_MEMORY_USAGE_CHECK_INTERVAL` | How frequently available memory should be checked. The value is in human readable value (ie. `100ms`)                    | `1s`              |
| `VECTOR_STORE_CQL_KEEPALIVE_INTERVAL`      | CQL Driver's keepalive interval. The value is in human readable value (ie. `30s`)                                        | (driver default)  |
| `VECTOR_STORE_CQL_KEEPALIVE_TIMEOUT`       | CQL Driver's keepalive timeout. The value is in human readable value (ie. `30s`)                                         | (driver default)  |
| `VECTOR_STORE_CQL_TCP_KEEPALIVE_INTERVAL`  | CQL Driver's TCP keepalive interval. The value is in human readable value (ie. `20s`)                                    | (driver default)  |
| `VECTOR_STORE_CDC_SAFETY_INTERVAL`         | CDC Driver's safety interval. The value is in human readable value (ie. `30s`)                                           | (driver default)  |
| `VECTOR_STORE_CDC_SLEEP_INTERVAL`          | CDC Driver's sleep interval. The value is in human readable value (ie. `10s`)                                            | (driver default)  |
| `VECTOR_STORE_USEARCH_SIMULATOR`           | Enable simulator for USearch. Provides human readable delays for simulated operations (`search:add-remove:reserve`).     |                   | 

## Development builds

You need to install [Rust
environment](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install). To install all
components run `rustup install` in the main directory of the repository.

Development workflow is similar to the typical `Cargo` development in Rust.

```
$ cargo b [-r]
$ cargo r [-r]
```

To install all cargo tools used in the CI:

```
$ scripts/install-cargo-tools
```

## Subdirectories

- [scripts](./scripts/README.md) - helper scripts for development, release,
  deployment, and testing

```
$ docker build -t vector-store .
```
